Contributing to LlamaIndex#
Interested in contributing to LlamaIndex? Here’s how to get started!
Contribution Guideline#
The best part of LlamaIndex is our community of users and contributors.
What should I work on?#
🆕 Extend core modules by contributing an integration
📦 Contribute a Tool, Reader, Pack, or Dataset (formerly from llama-hub)
🧠 Add new capabilities to core
🐛 Fix bugs
🎉 Add usage examples
🧪 Add experimental features
📄 Improve code quality & documentation
Also, join our Discord for ideas and discussions: https://discord.gg/dGcwcsnxhU.
1. 🆕 Extend Core Modules#
The most impactful way to contribute to LlamaIndex is by extending our core modules:
We welcome contributions in all modules shown above. So far, we have implemented a core set of functionalities for each, all of which are encapsulated in the LlamaIndex core package. As a contributor, you can help each module unlock its full potential. Provided below are brief description of these modules. You can also refer to their respective folders within this Github repository for some example integrations.
Contributing an integration involves submitting the source code for a new Python package. For now, these integrations will live in the LlamaIndex Github repository and the team will be responsible for publishing the package to PyPi. (Having these packages live outside of this repository and maintained by our community members is in consideration.)
Creating A New Integration Package#
Both
llama-index and
llama-index-core come equipped
with a command-line tool that can be used to initialize a new integration package.
cd ./llama-index-integrations/llms
llamaindex-cli new-package --kind "llms" --name "gemini"
Executing the above commands will create a new folder called
llama-index-llms-gemini
within the
llama-index-integrations/llms directory.
In addition to preparing your source code, we also ask that you fill in some
metadata for your package to appear in llamahub.ai with the
correct information. You do so by adding the required metadata under the
[tool.llamahub]
section with your new package’s
pyproject.toml.
Below is the example of the metadata required for all of our integration packages. Please replace the default author “llama-index” with your own Github user name.
[tool.llamahub]
contains_example = false
import_path = "llama_index.llms.anthropic"
[tool.llamahub.class_authors]
Anthropic = "llama-index"
(source)
NOTE: We are making rapid improvements to the project, and as a result, some interfaces are still volatile. Specifically, we are actively working on making the following components more modular and extensible (uncolored boxes above): core indexes, document stores, index queries, query runner
Module Details#
Below, we will describe what each module does, give a high-level idea of the interface, show existing implementations, and give some ideas for contribution.
Data Loaders#
A data loader ingests data of any format from anywhere into
Document objects, which can then be parsed and indexed.
Interface:
load_datatakes arbitrary arguments as input (e.g. path to data), and outputs a sequence of
Documentobjects.
lazy_load_datatakes arbitrary arguments as input (e.g. path to data), and outputs an iterable object of
Documentobjects. This is a lazy version of
load_data, which is useful for large datasets.
Note: If only
lazy_load_datais implemented,
load_datawill be delegated to it.
Examples:
Contributing a data loader is easy and super impactful for the community. The preferred way to contribute is by making a PR at LlamaHub Github.
Ideas
Want to load something but there’s no LlamaHub data loader for it yet? Make a PR!
Node Parser#
A node parser parses
Document objects into
Node objects (atomic units of data that LlamaIndex operates over, e.g., chunk of text, image, or table).
It is responsible for splitting text (via text splitters) and explicitly modeling the relationship between units of data (e.g. A is the source of B, C is a chunk after D).
Interface:
get_nodes_from_documents takes a sequence of
Document objects as input, and outputs a sequence of
Node objects.
Examples:
See the API reference for full details.
Ideas:
Add new
Noderelationships to model hierarchical documents (e.g. play-act-scene, chapter-section-heading).
Text Splitters#
Text splitter splits a long text
str into smaller text
str chunks with desired size and splitting “strategy” since LLMs have a limited context window size, and the quality of text chunk used as context impacts the quality of query results.
Interface:
split_text takes a
str as input, and outputs a sequence of
str
Examples:
Document/Index/KV Stores#
Under the hood, LlamaIndex also supports a swappable storage layer that allows you to customize Document Stores (where ingested documents (i.e.,
Node objects) are stored), and Index Stores (where index metadata are stored)
We have an underlying key-value abstraction backing the document/index stores. Currently we support in-memory and MongoDB storage for these stores. Open to contributions!
See Storage guide for details.
Managed Index#
A managed index is used to represent an index that’s managed via an API, exposing API calls to index documents and query documents.
Currently we support the VectaraIndex. Open to contributions!
See Managed Index docs for details.
Vector Stores#
Our vector store classes store embeddings and support lookup via similarity search. These serve as the main data store and retrieval engine for our vector index.
Interface:
addtakes in a sequence of
NodeWithEmbeddingsand inserts the embeddings (and possibly the node contents & metadata) into the vector store.
deleteremoves entries given document IDs.
queryretrieves top-k most similar entries given a query embedding.
Examples:
Ideas:
See a vector database out there that we don’t support yet? Make a PR!
See reference for full details.
Retrievers#
Our retriever classes are lightweight classes that implement a
retrieve method.
They may take in an index class as input - by default, each of our indices
(list, vector, keyword) has an associated retriever. The output is a set of
NodeWithScore objects (a
Node object with an extra
score field).
You may also choose to implement your own retriever classes on top of your own data if you wish.
Interface:
retrievetakes in a
stror
QueryBundleas input, and outputs a list of
NodeWithScoreobjects
Examples:
Ideas:
Besides the “default” retrievers built on top of each index, what about fancier retrievers? E.g. retrievers that take in other retrievers as input? Or other types of data?
Query Engines#
Our query engine classes are lightweight classes that implement a
query method; the query returns a response type.
For instance, they may take in a retriever class as input; our
RetrieverQueryEngine
takes in a
retriever as input as well as a
BaseSynthesizer class for response synthesis, and
the
query method performs retrieval and synthesis before returning the final result.
They may take in other query engine classes as input too.
Interface:
querytakes in a
stror
QueryBundleas input, and outputs a
Responseobject.
Examples:
Query Transforms#
A query transform augments a raw query string with associated transformations to improve index querying. This can interpreted as a pre-processing stage, before the core index query logic is executed.
Interface:
run takes in a
str or
Querybundle as input, and outputs a transformed
QueryBundle.
Examples:
See guide for more information.
Token Usage Optimizers#
A token usage optimizer refines the retrieved
Nodes to reduce token usage during response synthesis.
Interface:
optimize takes in the
QueryBundle and a text chunk
str, and outputs a refined text chunk
str that yields a more optimized response
Examples:
Node Postprocessors#
A node postprocessor refines a list of retrieved nodes given configuration and context.
Interface:
postprocess_nodes takes a list of
Nodes and extra metadata (e.g. similarity and query), and outputs a refined list of
Nodes.
Examples:
Keyword Postprocessor: filters nodes based on keyword match
Similarity Postprocessor: filers nodes based on similarity threshold
Prev Next Postprocessor: fetches additional nodes to augment context based on node relationships.
Output Parsers#
An output parser enables us to extract structured output from the plain text output generated by the LLM.
Interface:
format: formats a query
strwith structured output formatting instructions, and outputs the formatted
str
parse: takes a
str(from LLM response) as input, and gives a parsed structured output (optionally also validated, error-corrected).
Examples:
See guide for more information.
2. 📦 Contribute a Pack, Reader, Tool, or Dataset (formerly from llama-hub)#
Tools, Readers, and Packs have all been migrated from llama-hub to the main llama-index repo (i.e., this one). Datasets still reside in llama-hub, but will be migrated here in the near future.
Contributing a new Reader or Tool involves submitting a new package within the llama-index-integrations/readers and llama-index-integrations/tools, folders respectively.
The LlamaIndex command-line tool can be used to initialize new Packs and Integrations. (NOTE:
llama-index-cli comes installed with
llama-index.)
cd ./llama-index-packs
llamaindex-cli new-package --kind "packs" --name "my new pack"
cd ./llama-index-integrations/readers
llamaindex-cli new-package --kind "readers" --name "new reader"
Executing the first set of shell commands will create a new folder called
llama-index-packs-my-new-pack
within the
llama-index-packs directory. While the second set will create a new
package directory called
llama-index-readers-new-reader within the
llama-index-integrations/readers directory.
In addition to preparing your source code, we also ask that you fill in some
metadata for your package to appear in llamahub.ai with the
correct information. You do so by adding the required metadata under the
[tool.llamahub]
section with your new package’s
pyproject.toml.
Below is the example of the metadata required for packs, readers and tools:
[tool.llamahub]
contains_example = true
import_path = "llama_index.packs.agent_search_retriever"
[tool.llamahub.class_authors]
AgentSearchRetrieverPack = "logan-markewich"
(source)
3. 🧠 Add new capabilities to core#
We would greatly appreciate any and all contributions to our core abstractions that represent enhancements from the current set of capabilities. General improvements that make these core abstractions more robust and thus easier to build on are also welcome!
A Requests For Contribution Project Board has been curated and can provide some ideas for what contributions can be made into core.
4. 🐛 Fix Bugs#
Most bugs are reported and tracked in the Github Issues Page. We try our best in triaging and tagging these issues:
Issues tagged as
bugare confirmed bugs.
New contributors may want to start with issues tagged with
good first issue.
Please feel free to open an issue and/or assign an issue to yourself.
5. 🎉 Add Usage Examples#
If you have applied LlamaIndex to a unique use-case (e.g. interesting dataset, customized index structure, complex query), we would love your contribution in the form of:
a guide: e.g. Guide to LlamIndex + Structured Data
an example notebook: e.g. Email Info Extraction
6. 🧪 Add Experimental Features#
If you have a crazy idea, make a PR for it! Whether if it’s the latest research, or what you thought of in the shower, we’d love to see creative ways to improve LlamaIndex.
7. 📄 Improve Code Quality & Documentation#
We would love your help in making the project cleaner, more robust, and more understandable. If you find something confusing, it most likely is for other people as well. Help us be better!
Development Guideline#
Environment Setup#
LlamaIndex is a Python package. We’ve tested primarily with Python versions >= 3.8. Here’s a quick and dirty guide to getting your environment setup.
First, create a fork of LlamaIndex, by clicking the “Fork” button on the LlamaIndex Github page. Following these steps for more details on how to fork the repo and clone the forked repo.
Then, create a new Python virtual environment using poetry.
Install poetry - this will help you manage package dependencies
poetry shell- this command creates a virtual environment, which keeps installed packages contained to this project
poetry install --with dev,docs- this will install all dependencies needed for most local development
Now you should be set!
Validating your Change#
Let’s make sure to
format/lint our change. For bigger changes,
let’s also make sure to
test it and perhaps create an
example notebook.
Formatting/Linting#
You can format and lint your changes with the following commands in the root directory:
make format; make lint
You can also make use of our pre-commit hooks by setting up git hook scripts:
pre-commit install
We run an assortment of linters:
black,
ruff,
mypy.
Testing#
For bigger changes, you’ll want to create a unit test. Our tests are in the
tests folder.
We use
pytest for unit testing. To run all unit tests, run the following in the root dir:
pytest tests
or
make test
Creating an Example Notebook#
For changes that involve entirely new features, it may be worth adding an example Jupyter notebook to showcase this feature.
Example notebooks can be found in this folder: https://github.com/run-llama/llama_index/tree/main/docs/examples.
Creating a pull request#
See these instructions to open a pull request against the main LlamaIndex repo.